well howdy there and I know people let's
bow again so tonight I want you to close
your eyes I'm going to describe a
situation and I want you to picture
yourself in it you're in a country and
the graduates coming out of school
they're worried they're not gonna be
able to get a job the economy's changed
so much they are not portrayed very well
by the media there's been a tax on
freedom of the press assembly speech
intellectuals are demonized the
government is blaming foreign
interference for everything
of course predictably protest happens
picture this protest if whatever large
meeting area there is in your country if
you're in the u.s. pictured at than the
National Mall you know where the
Washington Monument and the wall and
we're Forrest Gump gave his speech you
join you show up because somebody has
got to hear this somebody's got to do
something weird thing happens that
protests it grows exponentially and it
doesn't disperse it's there day after
day
sparks smaller protests all around the
country eventually there's a million
people there logistical problems start
to set up food water hygiene starts to
stink there's n fighting among the
leadership of the movement you know
people vying for power some of it is
just egos some of it is the work of
intelligence agencies your own trying to
disrupt the movement and foreign
intelligence agencies because they smell
an opportunity the government response
happens tanks armored personnel carriers
quarter-million troops
and they're making their way to you
suddenly this amazing thing happens the
people and the surrounding suburbs they
stop them from reaching you mostly
through nonviolent means they block the
roads they stop traffic they do whatever
they can the tanks don't reach you
you've got popular support but that in
fighting is still happening so that
window of opportunity is missed you're
still there
surrounded by troops you know what's
coming you're not to worry because
you're begging for reform not revolution
but you know they're out there so you're
looking to that leadership looking for
somebody to tell you what to do then the
government comes back and this time they
make it to you and you're facing type59
tanks type 56 rifles they kill hundreds
maybe thousands we'll never know then
the weird thing happens 30 years later
some did it on the other side of the
world tell us the story in hopes of
making a point this happened
Tiananmen Square now the part that
Americans think of it as Tiananmen
Square that's still a few days from now
but the protests went on a really long
time the occupation you know we don't
really think of it that way because we
have a very narrow scope of what went
damn oh I really wanted to talk about
this but there's so much that parallels
what happens in the u.s. I didn't really
know where to take it to be honest if
you are politically active in the United
States you need to read about this in
depth in depth
so I thought to the one question I
always get asked by young activists what
do I do
how do I get started and I have kind of
a canned answer of you know you do what
you can
or you can when you can for as long as
you can and then I thought about the
most iconic image that came out of
Tiananmen Square
tanka man I actually had had this
picture on the wall in my office for a
long time at a high-pressure job anytime
that pressure got to me I could look up
and there's that guy standing in front
of that tank that's pressure
there is standing in front of that tank
there's more tanks behind it again
narrow scope that we know in the photo
that is most popular there's four tanks
turns out tanks were running all the way
down the street and he stopped them all
one guy you could tell by the way he was
dressed on what he was doing he wasn't
there to be a revolutionary that day he
just saw something
he's like somebody's got to do something
and then somebody did he did it he stood
out there in front of that tank if there
is ever a metaphor for the power of the
state and the implied violence of the
state versus the individual it's that
image it is that image and he's standing
there when the tank you know tries to go
left well he steps right gets in its way
stops that tyranny that goes right he
goes left he's probably a metaphor there
too
eventually he gets that tank stopped and
the other tanks behind it he climbs up
on it starts yelling at the people
inside telling him what they're doing is
wrong he gets off of it and they wind
that tank back up and he steps back out
in front of it again that is that's
courage
and he stops it again now eventually two
people run out they grab him and drag
him off for the longest time we thought
that was Chinese secret police who
grabbed this guy who was doing well what
he could where he could when he could
for as long as he could
turns how Chinese records kind of
indicate that they had no clue who he is
they certainly didn't catch him there
there was one guy who said that well we
think we got it right sure there's a
bunch of theories one is that he made it
out of the country and then he's an
archeologist another is that he's still
in mainland China doing what he can when
he can't where he can obviously that's a
version I like but the thing to take
away from this is that a million people
with popular support they were all
waiting for somebody
they were all waiting for somebody
you are somebody anyway it's just a
thought y'all have a good night